>> Mike North: So, if is a pretty useful
concept in building out some very basic
control flow.
But sometimes,
we come across things where we have
very repetitive classes that are defined.
A grid would be a great example where I'm
sure everyone has used a grid before where
you have, like a column that is two
wide or three wide or four wide.
And you could kind of express,
if you compared all these together,
you would definitely notice a pattern.
And we could just define
these all line by line, but
we could also define this in terms
of like iterating through something.
And SaaS gives us the ability
to iterate using for
and also each,
which we'll look at later on.
For is used to iterate
through a range of numbers.
And you see here, we're using string
interpolation as well, or interpolation,
in this case it's in the selector itself,
to generate
a well orchestrated set of sizes for
h1 through h5, right?
And you see here, we're doing some simple
math in order to determine the value here.
But this is a for loop.
>> Mike North: So
with for loops, we get this
data structure called an array.
An array is just a set of values that
are separated by either spaces or commas.
If you make.
Sorry.
If you mix spaces and commas,
you will almost certainly end
up with lists within lists.
So if I had like what you see here
from my list and then comma and
then another space separated set of
values, what you'd end up with is a list
of two things, each of which was
a list containing those four things.
Does that make sense?
So first, we split on one and
then we split on the other and
you can end up with something
that's a little bit interesting.
Where might you see something like this?
Has anyone seen like space separated stuff
and then comma, space separated stuff?
Anyone ever dealt with multiple shadows?
Like an inset shadow and
then another shadow.
This is a concept that tries to
mirror what already existed in CSS.
Right, the way this works, it works in the
same way that you have seen that concept
with multiple shadows.
>> Mike North: We
can iterate over a list using each.
And it basically looks
the same way as for,
except you don't pass in one
through five you pass it the list.
And in this case, $i.
That's gonna be the current
item in the list.
And here, we're doing something silly and
pointless just to show that we can go
through each of those values in order.
>> Mike North: So
with lists,
we also get a function called nth.
NTH, right?
That's like fifth, sixth,
seventh, but generalized.
And so, an example here where we have like
two lists where we have gradients defined.
What we're doing here is we're creating
a linear-gradient using the second
item in the gradients list, right?
Parenthesis, by the way, here are ignored.
They're just here to provide clarity.
It is completely valid to
use parenthesis in this way,
but you are not totally
required to use them.
Well actually, I take it back.
You are required,
because I'm using comma separated lists.
Otherwise, it would be taken
as a continuation of a single
list.
>> Mike North: So
nth is a way to pluck an item out of,
essentially, an array.
So this, if you're used to JavaScript,
this is like square brackets
with a number in there.
Keep in mind, it is one indexed.
It is not zero indexed.
The first item in the array
is the first thing,
number one.
>> Speaker 2: It had to be different.
>> Mike North: Right, yeah.
Just to be totally,
to throw everyone for a loop.
Literally, that was a loop joke.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: So maps are the second and
last type of data structure
we're talking about today.
Remember, we did numbers, strings,
booleans, colors, lists, and now six.
This is maps.
And they are key value pairs.
They almost look like style declarations,
right?
Because those are typically
key value pairs.
And these are fantastic for
storing things like themes,
where you could have a theme
that's defined as one variable and
within that map, you could have
multiple little sub-parts and
use map-get to pluck off a particular
value of interest there.
And you don't have to worry about
collisions with other variables,
because once you're in this map,
it's sort of one cohesive object, right?
And here, you can see I'm using map.get,
which takes,
as its first argument, the map.
And the second argument is the name of the
thing you want to pluck out of the map.
So here, I can create a dark button and
a light button,
referring by name,
to those things that are in my map above.
And this is the resulting CSS
that we get on the right.
And including the little interpolation
I have there to like make a comment
as to this is that theme.